[Music]
the human eye is one of the most
powerful machines on the planet it's
like a 500 megapixel camera that can run
in bright light in near darkness and
even underwater though not very well it
communicates to our brain so much about
the world our eyes are how we find
partners how we understand the people
around us how we read and how we watch
game shows on TV where people get
knocked into cold water by padded
wrecking balls yep the human eye is
pretty neat and we're lucky enough to
have two of them but there are things
that despite looking really hard we
still can't quite see for example you
can watch a horse galloping but your
eyes can't keep up with its fast-moving
hooves enough to figure out whether all
four feet are ever off the ground
simultaneously for these types of
questions we need cameras about 150
years ago the photographer Eadweard
Muybridge used one to solve the
galloping horse mystery using careful
photography my bridge proved that at
certain points as it gallops a horse
really is flying look ma no hooves
since then photography has found its way
into all aspects of math and science it
enhances our understanding of a world we
thought we could already see but it's
one which we really need help to see a
little better it's not always a matter
of the world moving by too quickly for
our eyes to process sometimes cameras
can help us see matter or movements that
are too small for the naked eye
botanists use multiple photographs to
show the life cycle of plants and how
flowers turn over the course of a few
hours to follow the Sun in what is
called phototropism growing towards the
line mathematicians have used photos to
look at where and the twists and turns
of a whip that crack sound comes when
the whip is breaking the sound barrier
meteorologists and environmental
scientists show the growth of major
hurricanes and the recession over the
years of many of the world's glaciers
slow motion film or high speed
photography have shown us the beating of
a hummingbird's wings and the course of
a bullet through its target
in one project cadavers that's dead
bodies were frozen and sliced into
thousands of wafer thin discs the disks
were photographed to produce animated
movies that allow a viewer to travel up
and down the skeleton and into the flesh
and through the bones and the veins and
perhaps I should have suggested you
don't watch this during dinner my bad in
classrooms today the camera now present
in just about every phone and computer
allows the youngest scientists to
observe the world around them to
document it and to share their findings
online whether it's the change of
seasons or the growth of a germinating
seed cameras are allowing us to see a
beautiful world through new eyes
you